README.md, before:

# Red Planet Explorer

## UX

This project is an application that brings different and scattered information to one place. Using a combination of APIs and other third part content to create an immersive experience.

The future on Mars is more of a "when" than an "if". The website shows the progress torwards Mars exploration accelerating more and more. With new technologies, new studies and curiosity the possibility of humans becoming an interplanetary species is a possibility in the horizon.

The design is responsive, changing the layout according to the size of the screen, loading data upon user actions and some buttons are shown or hidden depending on the screen resolution to make sure the user has the main actions always available on screen.

Four main User Stories were used to structure the website:

1. I want to know how is the weather on Mars.
2. I want to know about other missions sent to mars.
3. I want to find photos taken by the rovers.
4. I want to know what is behind the Mars exploration efforts.

for these stories we considered both tech savvy and the average internet user that are curious about Mars but aren't really sure of what kind of information is available to be explored.

All the sections and functionalities are easily accessible from the navigation bar and most of them won't take more than 3 clicks/taps from the home page to the end of the process.

## Features

### Existing Features

1. Header - DOBI logo and when the customer clicks on it, it brings the customer to the home page.
2. Navigation Bar - Navigation bar fixed at the top of the screen keeping always visible the menu, the company logo and social media links. Menu collapsed on small screen sizes and expanded from 676px and up.
3. Footer - Gives access to a short description of the company mission and quote button.
4. Home - Carousel with images and text that "talk" to the customer telling what the company does and progressing through different situations where the product can be used and closing saying it is available for "home" or "business".
5. Home - Callout buttons giving enphasis to "free quote", secondly to "tell me more" and thirdly "watch a demo".
6. Home - Cards with main points of the product, responsive design that adjustes itself depending on the screen size.
7. Home - Counter with quotes given, projects finished and projects ongoing.
8. Home - Carousel with customer quotes.
9. Services - Card linked to section with home automation content.
10. Services - Card linked to section with business automation content.
11. Services - Cards with product advantages. The order of the cards is responsive to screen size changing shape and position of the cards.
12. Services - Home automation section showing positive aspects of home automation.
13. Services - Home automation section showing positive aspects of business automation.
14. Services - How it works section featuring a video showing an example of how home automation can be used.
15. Services - Range - Shows known brands of products the company works on its daily basis.
16. Support - 3 numbered steps to guide customers in case of queries.
17. Support - FAQ section with accordion to show/hide answers.
18. Support - Form where the customer can fill with their question or quote request. Elements position is responsive.
19. About - Company history
20. About - Cards with team pictures and individual roles within the company.

### Features Left to Implement

- Animated counter (counting from 0)
- Live chat
- Shopping cart
- Interactive animation where buttons can turn on and off appliances on the screen.

## Technologies Used

- [Mockflow](https://mockflow.com/) - Used to create initial wireframe for the structure.
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5) - HTML 5 is the latest version of the Hypertext Markup Language and it is the standard programming language across the internet for structure and content.
- [CSS](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.3/) - CSS 3 makes possible to implement responsiveness and style to the HTML document.
- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) - Allowed the creation of animations and effects for menus and other features.
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Allowed the creation of animations such as the collapsed button.
- [Font Awesome](https://origin.fontawesome.com/) - It allows the introduction of icons that behave as normal text and are hardwired to users mind across the internet making it more recognizable and requiring minimal effort in understanding.
- [Hover Library](http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/) - Allows the utilization of pre-made hover effects, accelerating the development and styling process.
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Offers a wide variety of font styles.
- [Favicon generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net) - Website used to generate a custom favicon.

## Testing

During development process, the main tool for tests was the Developer Tools from Google Chrome.
The website was deployed on GitHub and tested on different screen resolutions and manufacturers (mobile phones).
The link was shared through slack, whatsapp and facebook and we collected users feedback to re-evaluate our project and find ways to improve it from the user point of view.

We asked the users doing the test to fulfill the four tasks from our User Stories and we asked for their feedback for these specific stories. The results were productive, offering important insights from the users perspective and also reinforcing positive aspects of the project.

The website was also tested through Google Chrome Developer tools - Audits for performance, Progressive web app, best practices, accessibility and SEO, with a simulated fast 3g connection and 4x CPU slowdown.
Some aspects weren't tackled due to our present technical limitations.

Many of the tests were made manually. Using browser "forward and back" arrows for navigating the website, testing the input fields with different formats of data such as email formats and required fields not to be allowed for submition as blank.
We also tested the user stories as test path to ensure they work as desired.

After the tests, we are satisfied with the way the website works on different devices and browsers.

The accessibility features on the code are still a part that we aren't very confident that is implemented correctly but is one of the main priorities on the improvements list as people who have sensorial impairments would be an important part of the potential customer base for the company.

The [W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) was used to check the HTML code. To validate the CSS code it was used the [Jigsaw CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/).

## Deployment

The project deployment was made using GitHub.

1. Created the cloud9 environment and files.
2. Created the equivalent repository on GitHub.
3. Pushed the files from cloud9 to the GitHub repository.
4. On GitHub environment, opened the tab "Settings"
5. Accessed the "github Pages" section
6. Selected "master branch" and saved.
7. After a few seconds the page was published.

From this point, all the changes on the pages were made straight from Cloud9 as I pushed the content.

If you wish to run the code locally, it is possible once you have saved the files for the page you wish to run (html, css, images and/or videos).

1. Make sure you have a browser installed on your computer.
2. Find the saved files
3. Right-click (Windows/Linux) or two-finger-click (Mac) on the file and select "Open with" from the action menu.

## Credits

### Media

The photos used in this site were obtained from:

- Carousel images :
- [Different devices](https://www.pexels.com/photo/accessories-business-computer-desk-511425/)
- [Tablet on the beach](https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=261344&picture=tablet-internetbeach-vacation)
- [Man in the jungle](https://pixabay.com/photos/forest-mobile-phone-camera-vacation-2347079/)
- [Man in the mountains](https://www.goodfreephotos.com/other-landscapes/man-taking-photo-of-mountain-landscape-with-cellphone.jpg.php)
- [Woman sitting on the couch](https://www.pexels.com/photo/woman-sitting-on-sofa-while-looking-at-phone-with-laptop-on-lap-920382/)
- [Work environment](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1547057)
- [Logos and icons](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery&m=free)
- [Robert Doe](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1457989)
- [Doe Family](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1060077)
- [Janice Doe](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1565903)
- [Family on the beach](https://allaboutplaya.com/record-number-of-tourists-visited-mexico-in-first-quarter/)
- [Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/embed/hYMpMt0lwUY)

Commit message:

Adding sections to Readme file

README.md, after:

# Red Planet Explorer

## UX

This project is an application that brings different and scattered information to one place. Using a combination of APIs and other third part content to create an immersive experience.

The future on Mars is more of a "when" than an "if". The website shows the progress torwards Mars exploration accelerating more and more. With new technologies, new studies and curiosity the possibility of humans becoming an interplanetary species is a possibility in the horizon.

The design is responsive, changing the layout according to the size of the screen, loading data upon user actions and some buttons are shown or hidden depending on the screen resolution to make sure the user has the main actions always available on screen.

Four main User Stories were used to structure the website:

1. I want to know how is the weather on Mars.
2. I want to know about other missions sent to mars.
3. I want to find photos taken by the rovers.
4. I want to know what is behind the Mars exploration efforts.

for these stories we considered both tech savvy and the average internet user that are curious about Mars but aren't really sure of what kind of information is available to be explored.

All the sections and functionalities are easily accessible from the navigation bar and most of them won't take more than 3 clicks/taps from the home page to the end of the process.

## Features <---->

### Existing Features

<!-- 1. Header/Navigation Bar - Contains website logo and links to the different sections. (on small resolution).
2. Navigation Bar - Navigation bar fixed at the top of the screen keeping always visible the menu, the company logo and social media links. Menu collapsed on small screen sizes and expanded from 676px and up.
3. Footer - Gives access to a short description of the company mission and quote button.
4. Home - Carousel with images and text that "talk" to the customer telling what the company does and progressing through different situations where the product can be used and closing saying it is available for "home" or "business".
5. Home - Callout buttons giving enphasis to "free quote", secondly to "tell me more" and thirdly "watch a demo".
6. Home - Cards with main points of the product, responsive design that adjustes itself depending on the screen size.
7. Home - Counter with quotes given, projects finished and projects ongoing.
8. Home - Carousel with customer quotes.
9. Services - Card linked to section with home automation content.
10. Services - Card linked to section with business automation content.
11. Services - Cards with product advantages. The order of the cards is responsive to screen size changing shape and position of the cards.
12. Services - Home automation section showing positive aspects of home automation.
13. Services - Home automation section showing positive aspects of business automation.
14. Services - How it works section featuring a video showing an example of how home automation can be used.
15. Services - Range - Shows known brands of products the company works on its daily basis.
16. Support - 3 numbered steps to guide customers in case of queries.
17. Support - FAQ section with accordion to show/hide answers.
18. Support - Form where the customer can fill with their question or quote request. Elements position is responsive.
19. About - Company history
20. About - Cards with team pictures and individual roles within the company. -->

### Features Left to Implement

- Animated counter (counting from 0)
- Live chat
- Shopping cart
- Interactive animation where buttons can turn on and off appliances on the screen.

## Technologies Used

- [Mockflow](https://mockflow.com/) - Used to create initial wireframe for the structure.
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5) - HTML 5 is the latest version of the Hypertext Markup Language and it is the standard programming language across the internet for structure and content.
- [CSS](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.3/) - CSS 3 makes possible to implement responsiveness and style to the HTML document.
- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) - Allowed the creation of animations and effects for menus and other features.
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Allowed the creation of animations such as the collapsed button.
- [Font Awesome](https://origin.fontawesome.com/) - It allows the introduction of icons that behave as normal text and are hardwired to users mind across the internet making it more recognizable and requiring minimal effort in understanding.
- [Hover Library](http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/) - Allows the utilization of pre-made hover effects, accelerating the development and styling process.
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Offers a wide variety of font styles.
- [Favicon generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net) - Website used to generate a custom favicon.

## Testing

During development process, the main tool for tests was the Developer Tools from Google Chrome.
The website was deployed on GitHub and tested on different screen resolutions and manufacturers (mobile phones).
The link was shared through slack, whatsapp and facebook and we collected users feedback to re-evaluate our project and find ways to improve it from the user point of view.

We asked the users doing the test to fulfill the four tasks from our User Stories and we asked for their feedback for these specific stories. The results were productive, offering important insights from the users perspective and also reinforcing positive aspects of the project.

The website was also tested through Google Chrome Developer tools - Audits for performance, Progressive web app, best practices, accessibility and SEO, with a simulated fast 3g connection and 4x CPU slowdown.
Some aspects weren't tackled due to our present technical limitations.

Many of the tests were made manually. Using browser "forward and back" arrows for navigating the website, testing the input fields with different formats of data such as email formats and required fields not to be allowed for submition as blank.
We also tested the user stories as test path to ensure they work as desired.

After the tests, we are satisfied with the way the website works on different devices and browsers.

The accessibility features on the code are still a part that we aren't very confident that is implemented correctly but is one of the main priorities on the improvements list as people who have sensorial impairments would be an important part of the potential customer base for the company.

The [W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) was used to check the HTML code. To validate the CSS code it was used the [Jigsaw CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/).

## Deployment

The project deployment was made using GitHub.

1. Created the local environment and files.
2. Created the equivalent repository on GitHub.
3. Pushed the local files to the GitHub repository.
4. On GitHub environment, opened the tab "Settings"
5. Accessed the "github Pages" section
6. Selected "master branch" and saved.
7. After a few seconds the page was published.

From this point, all the changes on the pages were made straight from my local file/branch management through GitKraken as I pushed the content.

If you wish to run the code locally, it is possible once you have saved the files for the page you wish to run (html, css, images and/or videos).

1. Make sure you have a browser installed on your computer.
2. Find the saved files
3. Right-click (Windows/Linux) or two-finger-click (Mac) on the file and select "Open with" from the action menu.

## Credits

### Media

The photos used in this site were obtained from:

- Carousel images :
- [Different devices](https://www.pexels.com/photo/accessories-business-computer-desk-511425/)
- [Tablet on the beach](https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=261344&picture=tablet-internetbeach-vacation)
- [Man in the jungle](https://pixabay.com/photos/forest-mobile-phone-camera-vacation-2347079/)
- [Man in the mountains](https://www.goodfreephotos.com/other-landscapes/man-taking-photo-of-mountain-landscape-with-cellphone.jpg.php)
- [Woman sitting on the couch](https://www.pexels.com/photo/woman-sitting-on-sofa-while-looking-at-phone-with-laptop-on-lap-920382/)
- [Work environment](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1547057)
- [Logos and icons](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery&m=free)
- [Robert Doe](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1457989)
- [Doe Family](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1060077)
- [Janice Doe](https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1565903)
- [Family on the beach](https://allaboutplaya.com/record-number-of-tourists-visited-mexico-in-first-quarter/)
- [Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/embed/hYMpMt0lwUY)
